almost one week after the unprecedented
Hamas Terror attacks in Israel Israeli
Israeli troops have been carrying out
raids inside Gaza the military says
infantry and tank units entered to track
down rocket Crews destroy weapons and
search for hostages the raids do not
appear to be the beginning of an
expected ground offensive Israel has
masked troops and tanks along the Gaza
border DW correspondent Rebecca rers is
in Tela she told us more about this
Israeli raids on
Gaza well that is what we've been
hearing the Israeli military saying that
they have been carrying out these very
small very targeted very elite teams
have been going in and carrying out uh
these raids as you said in the lead in
there to try particularly I think to
look for uh some of the more than 100
hostages we know are being held in Gaza
uh this is the first shift really
towards a ground Invasion though as you
also mentioned not a an indicative of
the beginning of such a ground Invasion
though that is something that is largely
expected to happen in the coming days if
not week we've been seeing uh I was down
there this week myself been seeing very
very uh heavy Armament and and a huge
troop movement around that Gaza border
and it is thought by everyone though
we've had no confirmation from the
Israeli military but it is thought that
a ground Invasion would be the next step
so it isn't surprising that this interim
step is a way that they can enter try
and look for these hostages and and do
other targeted acts in there without
triggering the full ground Invasion at
this
stage twws Rebecca rers in t there now
thousands of people are attempting to
flee their homes in gaza's North the
Israeli military has given over 1
million people just 24 hours to evacuate
South the United Nations has called the
order impossible and the terror group
Hamas is telling people to stay in their
homes but many Gins have decided to risk
the journey before a possible
Invasion Michael oh handland a senior
fellow for foreign policy at the
Brookings institution in Washington
thank you for joining us Michael I want
to start by asking you about Israel's
military calling these localized trades
do you see them as a first step in a
ground Invasion and what does localized
trades mean at this
point greetings well I thought your
coverage was very correct to say that
they're looking for certain things and
including hostages obviously once they
go in and mass with a big Force they
know the hostages lives are at even
greater Peril and so if there's any hope
whatsoever of finding those hostages it
makes sense to try to do it beforehand
however this is very hard work to find
people like needles in a hay stack to
find individuals whether Israeli or
Hamas leaders or Hamas holding the
Israelis because you just don't have a
lot of ways to find these individuals
you can try you can hope you might know
their cell phone numbers or be able to
recognize their voices or otherwise have
some kind of a Telltale signature but
it's not that hard to just find a
basement or an apartment and put people
there and there's no particular way
modern technology can find a hostage or
a Hamas leader just based on you know
their Identity or their DNA so it's
going to take some luck to be able to
find anything useful with these limited
incursions Israel has been watching the
Gaza Strip for years obviously and so
they may have some places where they
suspect activity's been ongoing where
Hamas tends to do uh its most important
work or have a lot of its key assets but
Hamas is relatively unlikely to put
hostages in those places so I think
Israel's probably not going to make a
lot of Headway in these initial efforts
but it makes sense to try because it may
be the best hope for getting anyone out
of there alive it's interesting to me
that you used that analogy of needles in
a haast stack because we also talking
about an area that is very densely
populated and it's an Urban Terrain that
is amongst the most densely populated in
the world is it given these
circumstances even possible for Israel's
military to avoid massive civilian
casualties if this so-called ground
offensive is carried out
soon is it's going to be awfully hard
and this is of course why Israel has
asked or demanded that more than a
million Palestinians in the northern
part of the Gaza Strip relocate it's a
Preposterous claim at one level how
could they possibly all relocate how
could you ever expect that Hamas would
let them and yet if they don't they're
going to be in the crosshairs of an
operation that does not know exactly
where it's headed I don't think the
Israelis they have some initial targets
I'm sure within Gaza beyond that I
believe they're hoping that one target
leads to another they gain intelligence
as they proceed but it's going to have
to be you know it's going to have to be
human intelligence work which is always
painstaking slow and imperfect and
requires good sources to be done well I
don't know how many Palestinians are
going to want to talk to the Israeli
Army that's about to enter into Gaza so
my overall concern is that the Israelis
are not going to be able to do very well
at finding what they really want except
through Brute Force building byb
building searches which means that there
will be a lot of firefights there'll be
people with itchy trigger fingers
there'll be ambushes set up by Hamas
that Israel will respond to inocent
people will get caught up in the
crossfire Israel sometimes will think
that it's being ambushed Israeli
soldiers will feel that way even if
they're not it's going to be an
extraordinarily intense and uh
unfortunately quite lethal Battleground
I'm afraid in in in the coming weeks
that sounds like a really difficult
situation for everybody involved to
navigate and I may be speaking a bit too
soon but if these are the circumstances
the military will be dealing with at
what point can they call for a
conclusion to this kind of an offensive
what is the main goal at the end here
that will make them end such an
offensive the main goal I believe is the
overthrow of Hamas now we all know prime
minister Netanyahu has famously said
that if you're a member of Hamas he will
die and that's sort of an understandable
human emotional reaction to what just
happened to his fellow Israelis but I'm
not sure it's a realistic military
objective and I'm not sure it needs to
be but I think what Israel is going to
try to do is make sure that Hamas is no
longer in charge of the Gaza Strip that
itself is going to be a difficult
objective to achieve but I think that's
the more realistic goal and what they
will be trying to do therefore is locate
the maximum number of top Hamas
leadership top Hamas command and control
sites any kind of financial assets Hamas
has the weapon that Hamas has and also
just to be honest to be blunt create
enough pain for everyone not through
intentional taking of civilian life but
through an operation that will lead to a
lot of uh loss of life on all sides that
at some point Hamas can be persuaded
either to step down or to otherwise
allow an international supervision of
the rule of Gaza going forward I think
that's where this those are the
parameters of the conversations that you
and I and others will be having over the
next two or three weeks because you're
right it's too soon to know right we're
going to have to see what happens on the
Battleground before we can really know
but these are the kinds of negotiations
and compromises and parameters for you
know adjustment that one could expect to
see emerge thank you for that analysis
Michael handland from The Brookings
institution thank
you let's take a quick look at some
other news concerning the
conflict turkey has begun sending
humanitarian Aid intended for Gaza two
Turkish Air Force planes have brought
food and medical supplies into Egypt the
raar border crossing is in southern Gaza
is the only point where eight can be
delivered an artillery strike has killed
a journalist and injured six others in
southern Lebanon Isam Abdullah of the
Reuters news agency was covering clashes
on the border with Israel un Secretary
General Antonio gutes warn the attack
highlights the risk of the conflict
spilling
over
German president Frank Walter Stein
meire called for solidarity with Jews
during a visit to a synagogue in Berlin
he said the state must protect Jewish
life after the Hamas terrorist group
urged violence against Jewish
communities Stein meire said he
represents the whole nation at the side
of all Jews in
Germany US Secretary of State anony
lincol has wrapped up talks in Qatar
he's been traveling around the region in
in an attempt to prevent the conflict
widening he began in Israel to show
support and discuss hostage negotiations
linkoln also met the Palestinian
president in Jordan he says it's vital
to contain the
violence United States and cutter share
the goal of preventing this conflict
from
spreading uh we discussed in detail our
efforts to prevent any actor state or
non-state from creating a new front uh
in this
conflict we're also working intensively
together to secure the release of
hostages including American citizens
being held by Hamas and Gaza I'm
grateful for the urgency that qter is
bringing to this
effort let's get more on that with tww
special correspondent a Ibraham in
Washington it's good to see you a did
Lincoln give any more details on how
Qatar is helping contain this
conflict it is expected that that with
qatar's sort of special connections with
Hamas a a group that is designated as a
terror organization by the US and others
but obviously not in Qatar that Qatar
can help with hostage negotiations in uh
the first uh as a as as a first priority
as secretary blinkin and uh President
Biden have uh reiterated again and again
in in in the days um in the past couple
of days that the release of hostages
really is a uh priority he's also hoping
I mean this is part of you know he's on
kind of on a worldwind tour of the
region at the moment he's hoping that
Qatar can also help with the
deescalation effects Qatar has uh not
only relationships with Hamas but also
relationships with the Iranian regime uh
and so there's this is definitely also
about
deescalation as well as uh maybe helping
with hostage
negotiations when we speak about
deescalation we know that in that press
conference we just saw blinken in and he
also fielded questions on the
humanitarian situation in Gaza how did
he respond to
those well he did reiterate Israel's
right to defend itself uh in the face of
these unprecedented uh attacks he said
that it is a priority or that he has
brought it up with Israeli partners that
uh Israel has to also consider civilian
life in uh conducting uh these uh
attacks pardon in conducting this
military uh uh operation he said that
there's also an emphasis on finding
humanitarian uh corridors uh for
civilians within the Gaza Strip uh but
he was he was asked specifically about
the evacuation order that was given to
civilians in Gaza but he did not give
any details about whether or not uh he
approves or condones uh uh that that
particular evacuation order
so some careful wording from the
secretary of state of the US there but
we are seeing him on as you mentioned
this Whirlwind tour what exactly is he
trying to achieve here through
that right we're seeing him um you know
he was in Bahrain today in Qatar he's
expected to also be in Saudi Arabia and
he has been to Jordan and has met with
the Palestinian Authority there and that
is really in an in an effort to get also
players in the region to condemn the
terror attacks that took place uh in
Israel but also in an effort to
deescalate the
situation A Ibraham in Washington DC
following that story for us of anti blin
trip through the Middle East thank you
so much
a